title: 21st January<br/>2022
layout: simple
class: bg-grey

## Announcing DjangoCon Europe 2022

We are happy to announce DjangoCon Europe 2022 will take place in Porto, Portugal 🇵🇹 hopefully! Let us explain, and believe us that there is a lot to explain.

DjangoCon Europe is hosted annually by an independent volunteer team. This volunteer team submits a proposal to DSF, which will then select the most suitable one from all the proposals. We knew from the start it would be daunting for a new team to submit for 2022, in these uncertain times. So, we pledged our availability to host another DjangoCon, but only if there was no other team submitting a proposal.

Do not get us wrong, we love the idea of welcoming you all in our city and country, we have been trying for the last two years, but we felt we should give other teams the chance, so we have not submitted an official proposal, just a backup plan, most of all we didn’t want to spend a year without a DjangoCon Europe.

Being here means no other team was available, understandingly so. Our main advantage is: having organised the previous two editions we are able to quickly set up keeping up the momentum.

We will try for the third time to host an in-person event, but a safe one. This means it will be hybrid from the start, both for speakers and participants. We want to give freedom of choice as well as being prepared for unforeseeable issues, which seem to be the new normal. Please keep in mind this might change in a heartbeat and we might end up with yet another online-only event, but let us hope for a bit more.

On another note, you might have noticed the unusual dates for DjangoCon Europe, which usually takes place during the first half of the year. DSF tried to find a new team to host, but due to the lack of viable proposals eventually contacted us in mid-November. Finding a suitable date on such short notice, avoiding other events, and booking a venue left us with little to no choices. To this end, we would like to thank both DEFNA and DSF for the exceptional permission as it will be unusually close to DjangoCon US.

So, DjangoCon Europe 2022 is back again and it’s going to be 5 full days of talks, tutorials and sprints - from September 21 to 25:

* ** Conference talks: ** September 21-23 (Wednesday-Friday)
* ** Sprints: ** September 24-25 (Saturday and Sunday)

In the near future, we will have more info about the conference, which we will publish on the website. This will include more details about the tickets, talks, workshops, grants, code of conduct, etc. For now, here is a summary of that info.

### Grants

As with past years, there will be a travel grants program to assist people with financial difficulties, people who are under-represented or from marginalised groups - allowing access to an event that otherwise would be very difficult position for them to attend;

### Sponsors

If you're interested in sponsoring the event, please get in touch at [sponsors@djangocon.eu](mailto:sponsors@djangocon.eu).

### Talk proposals

You can already start to prepare your talk, and for that, we recommend that you watch the talk [“How To Get On This Stage (And What To Do When You Get There)” by Mark Smith](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4rsL974kwsE){:target="_blank"}. If you think you have something great to talk about – start to prepare your talk! If you are unsure, talk it over with somebody, or go to [Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/djangoconeurope/shared_invite/zt-1gjg5lqkz-qVQkNnhjztXVme7TQ7ziQA){:target="_blank"} to find previous speakers and participants to discuss your idea with. When in doubt, submit your talk!

Volunteers
As you can imagine there is a lot to do, but it's very much worth it – DjangoCon Europe is an extremely friendly, open, inclusive, and informative (for beginners and advanced users alike) conference. Join us regardless of your prior experience: this is also an opportunity to learn! In other words, you don't have to be an expert to join. Below are the teams and their activities/responsibilities that we seek help with:

* ** Communications: ** Press, community relations, announcements, social media, attendee tools, volunteer coordination
* ** Support and hospitality: ** Helpdesk, attendee support contact, visa help, travel management, chat support for attendees, on-site * ** volunteer organization, speaker support;
* ** Financial aid and diversity advocate: ** Setup, grant selection, aid organization, accessibility considerations, outreach on-site;
* ** Sponsors: ** Outreach to companies, organizing their logistics at the event and other types of visibility;
* ** Program: ** Committee work, talk selection, scheduling, session chairs, sprint/open space/keynote/lightning talks session organization (we will open the CFP soon!);
* ** Code of Conduct: ** Drafting documents, handling of requests and issues.

You can apply through this form [here](https://forms.gle/z9wmZpcmEP3pf5fQ9){:target="_blank"}.

Your location before and during the event is not significant, since it will be hosted in a hybrid format. We can do all things that need to be done in Porto ourselves. The only important thing is that you have the energy and free time to help organize a wonderful DjangoCon Europe. The official language of all these prior activities will be English, as well as the conference itself.

<hr/>

We expect new challenges but pledge our hearts and minds to do the best DjangoCon Europe we can, never giving up under these strenuous conditions. Please consider volunteering and join us, we need you!

We hope we'll see you all at DjangoCon Europe 2022, and don't forget to follow us [@DjangoConEurope](https://twitter.com/djangoconeurope){:target="_blank"} on Twitter, and also join our dedicated [Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/djangoconeurope/shared_invite/zt-1gjg5lqkz-qVQkNnhjztXVme7TQ7ziQA){:target="_blank"} channel.

Hoping for the best,
The DjangoCon Europe 2022 Organisers
